#summary Open source projects that make Pixie possible.
#labels credits,thanks,links

Pixie uses code from many other open source projects. Without these projects Pixie would not be as great as it is today. We would like to say a really big thank you to the following projects & people:

==== Development ====

  * [http://www.bad-behavior.ioerror.us Bad Behavior] - A fantastic anti-spam script.
  * [http://tinymce.moxiecode.com/ TinyMCE] - Cross-platform WYSIWYG editor by Moxiecode.
  * [http://jquery.com/ jQuery] - Simply the best !JavaScript library - love it!
  * [http://simplepie.org SimplePie] - Puts the simple back into really simple syndication.
  * [http://www.phpclasses.org/browse/package/2779.html MySQL Backup] - A nice lightweight and easy to use backup class by Vagharshak Tozalakyan.
  * [http://devquickref.com Sitemap] - A PHP class for generating Google sitemaps by Svetoslav Marinov.
  * [http://www.finalwebsites.com Easy PHP Upload] - An easy to use class for your file uploads.
  * [http://www.phpclasses.org/browse/package/1239.html Paginator] - Class to help make pagination easier.
  * [http://www.wordpress.org Wordpress] - For a few handy functions and inspiration.
  * [http://textpattern.com Textpattern] - For the database interface class and inspiration.
  * [http://php.net/ PHP] - Does it need an introduction? One of the few scripting languages built specifically for web.
  * [http://www.mysql.com MySQL] - The worlds most popular open source database.
  * [http://code.google.com Google Code] - For the excellent project hosting.
  * [http://code.google.com/p/swfobject/ SWFObject] - The simplest way to embed Flash content on your site. 

==== Design ====

...and lets not forget the designers who have released beautiful themes under a [http://creativecommons.org creative commons] (or similar) license:

  * [http://ifelse.co.uk Ambiru] - Phy Ly
  * [http://busfullofhippies.johnoxton.co.uk Buss Full of Hippies] - John Oxton
  * [http://avalonstar.com Chaotic Soul] - Bryan Veloso
  * [http://www.ndesign-studio.com/ iTheme] - Nick La
  * [http://binarybonsai.com/wordpress/kubrick/ Kubrick] - Michael Heilemann
  * [http://ifelse.co.uk/ Simpla] - Phu Ly
  * [http://www.amypink.com Stilbruch] - Marcel Winatschek
  * [http://www.3-fold.co.uk 3fold] - Gemma Garner

==== Translation ====

... and those who have taken the time to translate Pixie:

  * [http://www.designcriativo.com Portuguese] - Vitor M. Costa
  * [http://www.holmquist.de Swedish] - Erik Holmquist
  * Spanish - Carlos Elías
  * [http://www.cosasdelcurro.net/ Spanish] - Victor Alvarez 
  * [http://www.q-design.it Italian] - René Querin
  * [http://www.office-web.net French] - Luke 
  * [http://wymiata.net/ Polish] - Adrian
  * [http://olento.net/ Finnish] - Joni Kärki


----

If you have questions or comments about this page head to the [http://groups.google.com/group/pixie-cms/ Pixie forums].