#summary Frequently asked questions.
#labels Featured,Phase-Support,faq,help,beginners

This document is a great place to start when looking for help with Pixie. The questions are ordered by popularity to keep the most relevant questions near the top. If you have any questions that are not answered here please head to the [http://www.pixieapp.com/forums/ forums].

==== What do I need to run Pixie? ====

  * A Web Server that supports PHP (version 4.3.0 and above), MySQL (version 4.0 and above) and a !JavaScript enabled web browser. More information is available on the [Installation] wiki page.

==== What licence is Pixie released under? ====

  * Pixie is released under the [http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html GNU General Public License, version 3]. 

==== How much does it cost? ====
  
  * Pixie is free and always will be. We are considering different ways we could monetise the project in future without charging for Pixie itself. This will ensure we can afford the time it takes to develop the software. One idea we are considering is creating an area on the Pixie homepage called "Pixie Pro" which will give subscribers (approx £10 - $20 a year) access to exclusive themes, modules and plug-ins. We are also looking at possibly awarding subscriptions to users who submit their themes, modules and plug-ins into "Pixie Pro"... We're still working on the fine detail but does that sound good? We think so! 

==== What is open source? ====

  * To learn more about open source software we suggest you visit the [http://opensource.org/docs/osd Open Source Initiative homepage].

==== How do I use Pixie? ====

  * If you find you are having trouble getting around the Pixie interface or you simply want a section explained then download our [http://pixie-cms.googlecode.com/files/pixie_user_guide_v1.0.pdf PDF user guide]. The guide gives you step by step instructions on how to perform different tasks within Pixie.
 
==== What is a CMS (content management system)? ====

  * Content management system (CMS) is the terrible term used to describe a piece of software that allows editing, management and updating of a website. Most CMS systems are accessed via your browser making it convenient to change your site from anywhere in the world. Why are we not to keen on the term?... because its confusing to anyone who hasn't had that explained.   

----

If you have questions or comments about this page head to the [http://groups.google.com/group/pixie-cms/ Pixie forums].