#summary Everything you need to know to get Pixie installed.
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy,installation,help

This page details everything you will need to know to get Pixie installed onto your web server. Those of you familiar with self hosted scripts should find this a very simple process. We have tried our best to make the install process as simple as possible.

=== Requirements === 
----

I am not a big fan of requirements, they are restricting and a little bit complicated for the average user. The good news is that Pixie is simple to get along with... here is what you need:

==== Server Requirements ====

  * A Web Server
   Pixie has been developed in a Linux/Unix hosting environment and is best suited to these platforms. Pixie should run (not currently tested) on a Windows server but some features may not work as expected.

  * PHP
    Version 4.3.0 and above. Pixie will work on previous versions of PHP but you will lose the spell check features of [http://tinymce.moxiecode.com/ TinyMCE].

  * MySQL
    Version 4.0 and above. You may well be able to use an older version of MySQL but it has not yet been tested. 4.0 and anything after should be fine.

==== Browser Requirements ====

  * !JavaScript
    You will need to have a !JavaScript enabled browser to use Pixie. Pixie is tested on IE7, IE6, Firefox (Mac & PC) and Safari (Mac & PC). Our favourite browsers are: [http://www.getfirefox.com Firefox] and [http://www.apple.com/safari/ Safari].

=== Hosting & Uploading ===
----

==== Web Hosting ====

Web hosting is cheap and easy to come by these days. You may already have some with your Internet service provider (ISP). We will add a list of hosting partners in the near future.

==== Uploading your files ====

Once you have saved Pixie onto your computer you need to [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ZIP_(file_format) unzip] (extract) it and upload it to your web server. Your web host company will have supplied you with your FTP details which you will need place into your favourite FTP client. We recommend:

  * Windows - [http://www.download.com/Leech-FTP/3000-2160_4-10122207.html Leech FTP]
  * Mac - [http://cyberduck.ch/ CyberDuck]
  * Linux - [http://ftpcube.sourceforge.net/ FTPCube]

All of these FTP clients are free to use.

=== The Pixie Installer ===
----

Now Pixie is uploaded to your web server the automated installer can take over (phew!). Visit your web address (e.g. www.mysite.com) and Pixie will now begin to install your site. It is a simple 3 step process that should take a couple of minutes. Make sure you have your database details ready (your host should supply you with them on request). If for any reason the installer fails you may need to manually install Pixie (details below).

=== Manual Installation (if something goes wrong) ===
----

Installing Pixie manually is actually easier than it sounds, here is how you do it:

  * Create your config.php file:
   In the admin folder of your Pixie download you will find a file called config.php. This file stores your database information. You will need to copy and paste the following code into the file replacing the information here with your own database information supplied by your web host.

{{{
<?php
//*****************************************************************//
// Pixie: The Small, Simple, Site Maker.                           //
// ----------------------------------------------------------------//
// Licence: GNU General Public License v3                   	   //
// Title: Configuration settings.                                  //
//*****************************************************************//

// MySQL settings //
$pixieconfig['db'] = 'my_database_name';
$pixieconfig['user'] = 'my_database_username';
$pixieconfig['pass'] = 'my_database_password';

// These should be ok to leave as they are //
$pixieconfig['host'] = 'localhost';
$pixieconfig['table_prefix'] = '';
?>
}}} 

  * Create your .htaccess file:
   The .htaccess file is an invisible file that is used to create the Clean URLs that Pixie uses. This file normally only works on Linux hosting platforms (some Windows servers do now support it). In the root of your website you will need to create a new file named .htaccess. Copy the following code into it and edit where indicated:

{{{

# These two lines allow you to upload larger files to Pixie (up to 100mb). 
php_value upload_max_filesize "100M"
php_value post_max_size "100M"

<IfModule mod_rewrite.c>
   
  RewriteEngine On

  # The RewriteBase should be set to the folder of your installation: 
  # / = your site is in the root, e.g. www.mysite.com 
  # /mysite = a site installed in a folder called mysite, e.g. www.mysite.com/mysite/
  
  RewriteBase /
  
  RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-f
  RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-d
  RewriteRule ^(.*) index.php?%{QUERY_STRING} [L]

</IfModule>
}}}

  * Import the SQL.
  Pixie requires some MySQL tables to be setup in order to run. In the install folder within Pixie (admin/install) you will find a file named: manual.sql. Use your favoruite database management program (such as [http://www.phpmyadmin.net/ phpMyAdmin]) to import this sql file into your database.

  * Make your upload folders writeable.
   In the admin folder of your Pixie download you will find a file called config.php. This file stores your datab

----

If you have questions about this page head to the [http://groups.google.com/group/pixie-cms/ Pixie forums].